DOCS-1447: Add info to components and services landing pages (#2641)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/components/_index.md

  - "/components/"
---

Viam provides support for a wide variety of hardware.

> A _component_ represents a physical piece of hardware in your {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machine" >}}, and the software that directly supports that hardware.

Reviewer: Maybe more accurate?
```suggestion
A _component_ represents a physical piece of hardware in or attached to your {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machine" >}}, and the software that directly supports that hardware.
```

Author: If a machine is an organizational concept, I think "in" is correct? I would say "that is part of your machine" but that confuses people with the special word "part."

Reviewer: maybe we should keep the organization concept as part of the glossary description then? Ok to leave as is. Consider the glossary edit

Author: okay putting org concept back into the glossary

> {{< imgproc src="/viam/machine-components.png" alt="Diagram with various components and services on a smart machine. This machine employs the vision, navigation, and data capture services, which run within viam-server on the machine's single board computer." resize="1000x" style="max-width:650px" >}}

Reviewer: Maybe centering this would look better?

<br>

> For each category (or _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="subtype" text="subtype" >}}_) of hardware, such as robotic arms, Viam has a [standardized API](/build/program/apis/#component-apis).
> Within each category, there are different _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}}_ that provide software drivers to support different hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Viam groups hardware, such as robotic arms into (or _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="subtype" text="subtype" >}}_).
For each subtype, Viam has a [standardized API](/build/program/apis/#component-apis).
Within each subtype, there are different _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}}_ that provide software drivers that implement the standardized API to support different hardware.
```

Author: I think there's a typo in your first sentence--would you like the word "categories" and the parentheses to stay or go?
How about this? I really worry the word "subtype" needs explicit explanation if we're using it at all.
```suggestion
Viam groups categories of hardware into _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="subtype" text="subtypes" >}}_ of component.
For example, `arm` is a subtype of component that encompasses all robotic arms.
For each subtype, Viam has a [standardized API](/build/program/apis/#component-apis).
Within each subtype, there are different _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}}_ that implement the standardized API with software drivers to support different hardware.
```

Reviewer: what you suggested looks good! Maybe we should just altogether avoid subtype here. It's not really needed at this point. So how about
```suggestion
Viam groups categories of hardware together.
By grouping components, Viam can provide [standardized APIs](/build/program/apis/#component-apis) for components.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Viam groups categories of hardware together, with a [standardized API](/build/program/apis/#component-apis) for all models in each grouping.
```

> For example, [`xarm7`](/components/arm/xarm7/) and [`ur5e`](/components/arm/ur5e) are different models of arm.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, [`xarm7`](/components/arm/xarm7/) and [`ur5e`](/components/arm/ur5e/) are different models of arm.
```

> For example, [`xarm7`](/components/arm/xarm7/) and [`ur5e`](/components/arm/ur5e/) are different models of arm.

Reviewer: sounds more like regular language usage
```suggestion
For example, [`xarm7`](/components/arm/xarm7/) and [`ur5e`](/components/arm/ur5e/) are different arm models.
```

Author: Okay--I was trying to do this for emphasis but will change!

> For example, [`xarm7`](/components/arm/xarm7/) and [`ur5e`](/components/arm/ur5e/) are different arm models.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, [`xarm7`](/components/arm/xarm7/) and [`ur5e`](/components/arm/ur5e/) are different arm models, and you use the same standard arm API to interact with both of them.
```

> These models provide software support for xArm7 arms and UR5e arms, respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
```
